In the previous video, we already learn how
to configure etherchannel using LACP.
Now in this video, we are going to learn how
to configure etherchannel using PAGP.
Let’s just start.
First, let’s import new switch, let’s
say here we use layer 3 switch, which is 3560.
Now let’s connecting the new switch to switch 1.
Here we can see that we have blocking port
in multi layer switch.
We will configure an etherchannel here soo
all interface will active.
In this case, we are going to use PAGP.
Let’s start the configuration, open switch 1,
here we can see that the interface connected
to multi layer switch is fa0/5 until fa0/7.
So here interface range fa0/5-7, switchport
mode trunk, remember that we need to configure
the interface as trunk first before configuring
etherchannel.
Next let’s configure the etherchannel, so
channel-group and then the id,
remember that id 1 is already used for interface that connected
to switch 0, so here we can not use 1 anymore,
let’s say here we will use 2.
Mode, question mark.
Here we can see that for PAGP we can use mode
auto or desirable.
This is same as active and passive in LACP,
auto is waiting for invitation from the neighbor,
and desirable will invite the neighbor to
activate etherchannel.
So if desirable meet with auto, the etherchannel
will up, desirable meet with desirable,
the etherchannel will also up, but if auto meet
with auto, the etherchannel will not up.
In this case, let’s configure switch 1 to
desirable.
Okay now we have done configuring etherchannel
in switch 1, next let’s configure etherchannel
in multi layer switch.
Here we can see that the interface is fa0/1
until 3.
No, enable, configure terminal, interface
range fa0/1-3.
And then switchport mode trunk.
Okay here we can see that we get an error
“command rejected”.
Remember that if we configure trunk in multi
layer switch, we must define the encapsulation first.
So here switchport trunk encapsulation dot1q,
and then switchport mode trunk.
Okay here we can see that we don’t get an
error anymore.
Next, let’s configure the etherchannel.
So here channel-group 2, remember that in
switch1, we use id 2, so here we must use
id 2.
Mode, in the switch 1 we use mode desirable,
so here we are free to use desirable again
or auto.
In this case we will use desirable again.
Okay now we have done configuring etherchannel,
fast forward time.
Here we can see that all of interface is green,
let’s check in switch 1, do show etherchannel
summary.
Here we have po2, uppercase s uppercase u,
this is means layer 2 and in use,
the protocol is pagp, the port is fa0/5 until 7, and all
of the port is P, this is means in port channel.
Let’s also check in the multi layer switch,
do show etherchannel summary.
Here we also have po2, uppercase s and uppercase
u, this is means layer 2 and in use, the protocol
is pagp, and the interface is fa0/1 until
3.
And all of the interface is in port channel.
Okay so now the etherchannel between switch 1
and multi layer switch is up.
Let’s add a pc for testing, connecting the
pc to multi layer switch, and configure the
ip address, let’s say 192.168.1.3
Let’s ping from pc 1 to pc , okay success,
from pc 2 to pc 0, also success.
Okay so now we have done configuring the etherchannel
using PAGP, and the etherchannel is up!
I think enough for this video
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next video.